# Credit-Card-Fraud-Detection

              The Credit Card Fraud Detection Problem includes modeling past credit card transactions with the knowledge of the ones that turned out to be fraud. A model is to be used to identify whether a new transaction is Fraudulent or not. Our aim here is to detect the fraudulent transactions while minimizing the incorrect fraud classifications. The number of online transactions has grown in large quantities and online Credit Card Transactions hold a huge share of these transactions. Finance fraud is a growing problem with far consequences in the Finance industry. Therefore, banks and financial institutions offer credit card fraud detection applications much value and demand.
              
              Due to the immense growth of e-commerce and increased online based payment possibilities, Credit Card Fraud has become a deeply relevant global issue. Recently, there has been major interest in applying Machine Learning Algorithms as Data Mining technique for Credit Card Fraud Detection. In this project, we compare the performance of various Machine Learning Algorithms in detecting fraud on real-life data containing credit card transactions. For detecting Fraud Transactions, We use a dataset which has 31 features, 28 of which have been anonymized in order to maintain the confidentiality of customers and are labeled V1 to V28 .The remaining three features are the time and the amount of transaction as well as whether that transaction was fraudulent or not .The performance of the techniques is evaluated based on commonly accepted metric: Precision ,Recall,F1-score and MCC.
              
                This Project predicts whether the given transaction is fraudulent or not by using Random Forest Classifier Algorithm .It also compares the efficiency of Random Forest Classifier and Decision Tree Classifier for predicting fraud and non-fraud transaction. We have also handled imbalanced data by usingSMOTE(Synthetic Minority Over Sampling Technique).
